It’s well known that you can upload music to YouTube.
This page of JASRAC says that
“your own musical performances” can be uploaded
without any procedures.
Does that mean that what we played ourselves is okay?
The dance club’s song is the same but they used a downloaded
version, right?
What is the “neighboring right owner”
you were talking about earlier?
I’ve only just heard of it.
I’ll explain it to you.
The rights under the Copyright Law
are broadly divided into copyrights, the authors’ rights, and
neighboring rights, which are the rights of performers, etc.
Performers are singers, actors, theater directors,
and other people
who are responsible for communicating copyrighted works
to the public.
Although the performer has not created copyrighted works,
communicating them has “neighboring rights.”
It is not the same as the copyright, but it will have the rights
shown in the diagram.
The person who has neighboring rights is the
“neighboring right owner.”
I see that in the case of music, the singer becomes the performer
and has neighboring rights.
And when you upload it to YouTube, you need
the performer’s permission, right?
That’s right.
In the case of music, the rights involved are shown
in the red text.
The band club “performed” at the university festival.
The composer, who is the copyright owner, holds the musical
performance right,
so it is necessary to obtain the composer’s permission.
However, the university festival was a non-profit performance,
so it was okay without permission.
When uploading to YouTube this time, in addition to that,
you need to reproduce and publicly transmit the video.
For many songs, the scope of these rights is managed
by JASRAC of the management society, etc.
According to the website Ryota mentioned earlier, YouTube has a
comprehensive license agreement with JASRAC,
and they have licenses on behalf of the users who upload music
to the website.
The best thing about it is that you can upload your own
“musical performances” without any procedures.
That’s right. However, JASRAC and other copyright management
societies do not manage some songs.
In that case, please be aware that
you need to do the procedure yourself.
I’ll explain from here, as a music lover.
You can upload “your own musical performances”
without any procedures.
However, the dance club used the music recorded by singers,
which the record companies sold.
Since we are using it, if we don’t do it correctly,
there is a possibility that this could result in an infringement of
the “performer’s right” and the “record producer’s right,”
which are one of the neighboring rights.
JASRAC does not manage them.
So, the singers/record companies are the neighboring rights
owners, and you must get their permission to upload to YouTube.
Come to think of it, I wonder if the instrument players also
become performers?
It’s complicated.
In many cases, it seems that the performers’ rights are also
assigned to the record labels,
that produced the record, or even if they are not assigned,
the record companies manage them.
In this case, I need permission from Sunny Music,
which publishes this song.
I’ll look up the contact details right away.
That’s a very good idea.
It’s important to know that if you want to use someone’s
copyrighted work, don’t give up
because you can’t use it without permission, because you only
need to ask for permission to use it.
First, you should look for the copyright owner and neighboring rights owner,
specify the purpose, period of use, etc., and apply for a license.
Understood!